Part 1: Connect to Colosseum
Connect to the Colosseum wireless network emulator (https://experiments.colosseum.net/) as shown in
class. As a reminder, the setup steps are the following:
- Setup the Colosseum VPN:
https://colosseumneu.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/61000285824-cisco-anyconnect-
remote-vpn-access
- Upload your SSH public key on Colosseum:
https://colosseumneu.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/61000253402-upload-ssh-public-
keys
- Setup your local SSH proxy:
https://colosseumneu.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/61000253369-ssh-proxy-setup
- Access Colosseum resources:
https://colosseumneu.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/61000253362-accessing-
colosseum-resources
Get familiar with the system and on how to make reservations:
- Quick start guide: https://colosseumneu.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/61000253395-
quick-start-guide
- User guide: https://colosseumneu.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/61000253387-
colosseum-user-guide
Part 2: Make a reservation with Wi-Fi nodes on Colosseum
1. Connect to Colosseum VPN (instructions here and login to Colosseum website).
2. Make a reservation with two colosseum nodes, also called Standard Radio Nodes (SRNs), with
the webinar-interactive-v1 image (see instructions on Making a Reservation). Call the
reservation in a meaningful way (e.g., your-name-wifi). Two hours should suffice.
3. In the reservation page, you can find the assigned SRNs/nodes and their hostnames by hovering
over nodes, as shown in class. At your scheduled reservation time, open two terminals and ssh
as root user into the assigned Colosseum SRNs (the password for the webinar-interactive-
v1 container is sunflower):
ssh root@<srn-hostname>
4. In this assignment, we are going to use one of the base Colosseum scenarios (1009), which
supports up to 10 nodes in the reservation. The center frequency of this scenario is 1 GHz. This
scenario does not add any additional channel characteristics to the RF transmissions of the
nodes (besides the contributions of the hardware components of Colosseum). Read the full
specifications of this scenario at the following page:
https://colosseumneu.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/61000277641-test-scenario-all-
paths-0-db-1009.
5. Now start the scenario: in one of the terminals, run the following command to start a Colosseum
Radio-frequency (RF) scenario through the Colosseum CLI API (see here for more information on
this API):
colosseumcli rf start 1009 -c
The -c option ensures that the scenario automatically restarts after its completion. When the
scenario starts, an output similar to the following is returned (time is in UTC):
Scenario Start Time is 22:30:45
5. This will engage the Colosseum RF Channel Emulator and make the necessary connections
between the USRPs of the reserved nodes based on the parameters set in the specific RF
scenario (see https://colosseumneu.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/61000277641-test-
scenario-all-paths-0-db-1009). You can check if the RF scenario is active and running by
executing the following command:
colosseumcli rf info
Part 3: Verifying the RF emulator is setup properly
In this step, we will verify that Colosseum RF emulator has been setup correctly. Note that you will need
the two terminals of the previous step to run the following commands.
1. In both terminals, cd to (move to) the /root/utils directory.
2. Execute the uhd_tx_tone.sh script in the first terminal:
./uhd_tx_tone.sh
3. Execute the uhd_rx_fft.sh in the second terminal:
./uhd_rx_fft.sh
4. This will send a tone at a set frequency from the first SRN and it will display a spectrum analyzer
in the second SRN. If the RF emulator is set appropriately as explained in the previous section,
the signal generated by the first SRN (left terminal in the figure below) will propagate through
Colosseum RF emulator and reach the second SRN (right terminal). The results should look
similar to the following:
5. Once done, hit Ctrl+C in both terminals to stop the uhd_tx_tone.sh and uhd_rx_fft.sh
example scripts.
Question 1: What is the frequency at which the tone is sent? Report your findings, including a screenshot
similar to the one above. Comment your results. 
Question 2: Edit uhd_tx_tone.sh and the uhd_rx_fft.sh scripts to change the center frequency to 0.99
GHz. Repeat the previous steps. Which modifications are necessary to work with the new center
frequency? Report your findings and a screenshot similar to the one above. Comment your results. 
Question 3: Do the same as asked in Question 2 but set the center frequency to 0.9 GHz. Report your
findings and a screenshot similar to the one above. Comment your results. 
Part 4: Start the Wi-Fi nodes
In this step, we will use the Wi-Fi nodes reserved in the previous steps. Note that you will need the two
terminals of the previous step to run the following commands.
1. For each SRN, navigate to the directory /root/interactive_scripts and execute the
tap_setup.sh script to setup a tap interface for the SRN (see Traffic Generation for more
information on routing traffic in Colosseum):
/root/interactive_scripts/tap_setup.sh
2. For each SRN, execute the route_setup.sh script (located in the
/root/interactive_scripts directory) to setup the routing tables:
/root/interactive_scripts/route_setup.sh <ID of the other SRN>
NOTE: In each of the SRN, you need to setup the route to the other SRN. The SRN IDs are
created by adding 100 to the SRN number assigned to your reservation. As an example, SRN-
015 will have ID 115, hence the IP address of the tr0 interface of this node will be 192.168.115.1.
In this example, the above command becomes:
/root/interactive_scripts/route_setup.sh 115
3. In each SRN, execute the modem_start.sh script to start the Wi-Fi modem:
/root/interactive_scripts/modem_start.sh
4. If the interfaces and routes are setup correctly, the results should look similar to:
NOTE: we will need to leave these two processes running to be able to communicate between
the Wi-Fi nodes, and perform the following steps.
Question 4: What is going on in the two nodes? What kind of messages are the two nodes exchanging?
Report your findings, including a screenshot similar to the one above. Comment your results. 
5. Now, open two new terminals and ssh into the same SRNs as before (this is to keep the other
terminals with the modem running).
6. From each SRN, in the newly opened terminals, ping the tr0 interface of the other SRN:
ping 192.168.<other-srn-ID>.1
This transmits ICMP packets over the RF emulator. If the ping is successful, it means that you
have configured your SRNs in the correct way and you have an emulated channel between them.
Also observe new Wi-Fi packets being generated and sent in the previous two terminals.
7. Once done, hit Ctrl+C to stop the ping in both SRNs.
Question 5: What is the average round-trip time between the two Wi-Fi nodes? What is the one-way
delay? What is the packet loss experienced by the two nodes? Report your findings and comment your
results. 
Part 5: Start Colosseum Traffic Generator (TGEN)
In this step, we will use the Wi-Fi nodes reserved in the previous steps. Note that you will need the two
terminals of the previous step to run the following commands.
1. In one of the terminals, execute the following command to start a traffic scenario through the
Colosseum traffic emulator:
colosseumcli tg start 10090
2. This will engage the Colosseum Traffic Generator (TGEN) and start packet flows between
Colosseum and the SRNs of your reservation based on the parameters specified in the traffic
scenario (see https://colosseumneu.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/61000277641-test-
scenario-all-paths-0-db-1009). You can check if the traffic scenario is active (and running) by
executing the following command:
colosseumcli tg info
3. Now you can monitor the packet flow on the tr0 interface (i.e., the interface in which the SRNs
receive/forward packets from from/to TGEN) of each SRN by running the following command on
each SRN:
tcpdump -i tr0
Note that it takes a few minutes (~5 mins) for TGEN to initialize the traffic scenario and start
transmitting packets to the SRNs.
4. In the container used in this assignment, a correctly configured SRN will forward the packets to the
other SRN through the RF channel emulator. A bidirectional transmit/receive flow of packets can
be seen in the output of the above tcpdump command, and it should be similar to the following:
Question 6: What are the characteristics of the traffic flows of this scenario (i.e., packet size and rate)?
Report your findings, including a screenshot similar to the one above. Comment your results. 
5. Once done, hit Ctrl+C in all four terminals to stop the Wi-Fi applications and the tcpdump.
Part 6: Clean up
This concludes Colosseum Wi-Fi assignment.
1. After you are done with your experiments, it is good practice to stop the traffic and RF and TGEN
scenarios by running the following commands from in one of the previous terminals:
colosseumcli rf stop
colosseumcli tg stop
2. Close all the previous terminals.
3. Log into the Colosseum website and terminate your reservation by clicking the red X button next to
